3.2 Creating Logical and Physical queues

3.2.1 Adding DQM to the Windows GUI (desktop). 
By default, the DQM queues will not show in the Windows GUI. To add the items:
a). Right click on the User Desktop --> Object folder --> DQM --> Dqm queue (see Figure 1)
b). Right click on the just created "Dqm Queue" item --> Selection folder --> Node --> select the nodes where the DQM servers will run (see Figure 2). If you are want to do load balancing, you should have all of the involved nodes selected.
c). Right click on the just created "node" item --> Selection folder --> Area --> select the area to monitor (see Figure 3)
d). Left click on one of the just added areas, for example: Application area, you may see something like Figure 4. If your pannel on the right side is empty, don't worry, that means you haven't create any queue yet. We will create some together in the next section.

3.2.2 Creating queues

3.2.2.1 Creating a physical queue
a). Select an area, for example, the production area, then right click on the right pannel; (see Figure 5) then select "Create".
b). You should get a window like Figure 6. In this Window, you can specify the parameters for the queue. For now, all you need to do is to enter a name for the queue. You should have the following parameters for the queue.
	Name: 'some_queue_name'
	State: Stopped
	Node: Specifying the node where the queue is located
	Type: Physical
	Maximum number of ... : 999

Save the changes.
c). Now you should have the just created queue shown on the right panel. Right click on the queue name and select "Start" from the drop down menu.
OK, so far we have created and started a physical queue.

3.2.2.2 Creating a logical queue
Before we start, let's take a look at the defination of a logical queue.
Quoted from the "DQM Manual"
"A logical queue does not allow direct execution of a job.
It enables the jobs submitted to be dynamically distributed across its associated physical queues in order to optimize the machine occupancy rate." For more information, please check the "DQM Manual"

a). The same as creating a physical queue.
b). Specifying the "Type" as "Generic" and save, but do not close the window.
c). Selecting the "Attached queues" tab (see Figure 7)
d). From the drop down list, select the node names that you need to balance load with and then, attach the physical queues from that node with the add button. 
e). Save and close the window.
